.TH sabcmd 1 "June 17, 2002"
.LO 1
.SH NAME
sabcmd \- a command line interface to Sablotron XSLT processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sabcmd
[options] <stylesheet> [<input> [<output>]] [assignments]
.br
.B sabcmd
[options] -batch-xml <input> [<stylesheet> [<output>]]+ [assignments]
.br
.B sabcmd
[options] -batch-xsl <stylesheet> [<input> [<output>]]+ [assignments]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sabcmd
is a command line interface to Sablotron XSLT processor. You can
use is to transform XML files with XSLT stylesheets.
.P
The only required parameter is a stylesheet; this is a URI of
an XSLT stylesheet to be used for the transformation process. If you
omit an input file, the standard input is used. In addition, you can
specify an output file. If no output file is given, the output is sent to 
the standard output. 
.P
sabcmd can also run in a batch mode to process single input file with 
multiple stylesheets (--batch-xml) or to apply a stylesheet to multiple
input files (--batch-xsl).
.P
.B Assignments
allow to pass parameters and named buffers to the
processor. The assignments have always the form of
.IP
name1=value1 name2=value2 ...
.P
where name is either an ASCII string for named buffers or an ASCII string
with the leading '$' sign for parameters. (Note that you need to use the 
right quotes to prevent the shell interpreter from performing an expansion
of variables). 
.SH OPTIONS
Option can be of two forms - short or long. If some options have
values, the values are separated with a whitespace for short options 
and with a equal sign ('=') for long options. 
.IP
-L mylog.log
.P
is the same as
.IP
--log-file=mylog.log
.SS COMMON OPTIONS
.TP
.B -x, --batch-xml
multiple stylesheets, single input file
.TP
.B -s, --batch-xsl
multiple input files, single stylesheet
.TP
.B -b, --base=NAME
set the hard base URI to NAME
.TP
.B --debug-options		
display the information on debugging options
.TP
.B \-?, --help
display this help message
.TP
.B \-L, --log-file=NAME
set the log file, turns logging on
.TP
.B \-m, --measure
measure the time of processing
.TP
.B -v, --version
display the version information
.SS DEBUG OPTIONS
.TP
.B --debug			
display results of the command line parse
.TP
.B \-t, --times=COUNT
run sabcmd the specified number of times
.TP
.B \-f, --flags
pass flags given to SablotSetOptions()
.TP
.B \-F, --use-SPF
use SablotProcessFiles()
.TP
.B \-S, --use-SPS
use SablotProcessStrings(). Give 2 args (stylesheet,
input). Precede each by @.
.TP
.B --use-SPS-on-files	
use SablotProcessStrings() on the contents of the given files.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
When the <xsl:sort> instruction is used without the 'lang' attribute,
common locale related environment variables apply..
.SH BUGS
There are no known bugs related to
.B sabcmd
currently. Most of bugs you can meet are related to Sablotron
processor itself. In such a case, please take a look at Sablotron's
home website (www.gingerall.org) or contact us at <sab-bugs@gingerall.cz>.

.SH AUTHOR
Pavel Hlavnicka <pavel@gingerall.cz>
